If you have a charge, there will be a force exerted on the particle if it is sitting under [[Electric Field]]. At a given point, [[Electric Field]] gives you magnitude and direction of the Force a charge particle will feel. A positive [[Electric Charge]] would go with the [[Electric Field]], and the negative would go against. 

We can also use the concept of [[Electric Field]] in relation with [[Potential Energy]](capacity for a system to do work which arises from position or configuration). You could define work as the integral of force times the distance, but also could calcualte [[Electric Work]]. It could be expressed as∫(q * E) * ds = -$\Delta$U. If the system does work, its potential energy is increases. 

We are going to define $\frac{\Delta U}{q}$ =$\phi$ where $\phi$ is your [[Electrostatic Potential]]. A measure of work per charge that can be done in moving a particle from x1 to x2. 

Now, how can we link [[Electric Field]] with [[Electric Charge]]($q$), and [[Charge Density]]($\rho$). [[Coulomb's Law]] relates them by -> F = k * (|q₁| * |q₂|) / r² . Similarly, a charge would eminate an [[Electric Field]] E = kq/r²2, and it eminates spherically in all direction. [[Electric Field]] points out for the positive test charge, and points inwards for a negative. We can also introduce $\phi$=∫ -E dx to relate [[Potential Energy]] to an electric charge. When a charge moves in the same direction as the electric field, the work done by the field is negative. This means that the electric field is doing work on the charge, transferring energy to it. The potential energy of the charge decreases as it moves in the direction of the field. When a charge moves opposite to the electric field, the work done by the field is positive. In this case, the charge is doing work against the electric field, expending energy. The potential energy of the charge increases as it moves against the field.

Now, lets move away from descrete charges to charge distributions. Instead of a [[Electric Charge]] q, we are going to talk about [[Charge Density]]. One of the things we need to think about is concept of [[Electric Flux]]. It is [[Electric Field]] going through an area. If you have a given charge. It does not matter where you enclose your area either in a square, or a sphere, or a cube, the amount of flux would always be proportional to the amount of [[Electric Charge]] q. From, [[Gausses Law]], we can get [[Poisson Equation]] for electrostatics. So [[Poisson Equation]] takes $\rho$ and goes to $\phi$ while [[Gausses Law]] takes q_enc or $\rho$ and goes to the [[Electric Field]].


